[API design] Patch software: install if host is below the current version (#27208)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/REST API/rest-api.md

        "name": "SomeQuery",
        "query": "SELECT * FROM foo;",
        "description": "this is a query",
        "resolution": "fix with these steps...",
        "platform": "windows,linux",
        "response": "pass",
        "critical": false,
        "calendar_events_enabled": false,
        "created_at": "2025-02-05T23:34:46Z",
        "updated_at": "2025-02-05T23:34:46Z",
        "author_id": 98,
        "author_name": "User",
        "author_email": "user@example.com",
        "team_id": 274,
        "fleet_maintained": false
      },
      {
        "id": 5,
        "name": "Install zoom.us.app",
        "query": "SELECT 1 FROM apps WHERE bundle_identifier = 'us.zoom.xos';",
        "description": "ZoomInstallerIT.pkg version 6.3.11.50104 is installed when the host doesn't have any version of it installed.",
        "resolution": "",
        "platform": "darwin",
        "response": "fail",
        "critical": false,
        "calendar_events_enabled": false,
        "created_at": "2025-02-05T23:34:46Z",
        "updated_at": "2025-02-05T23:34:46Z",
        "author_id": null,
        "author_name": "Fleet",
        "author_email": "",
        "team_id": 274,

>         "fleet_maintained": true,      

Author: ### Dev note

New `fleet_maintained` flag. Currently will only be `true` for patch and install policies. 

If `true`, the policy's `name` is "Fleet". `author_id` is `null` and `author_email` is an empty string.

Author: ### Dev note

Can't delete `fleet_maintained` policies.

If the user tries to delete the policy via the [Remove policies (global)](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#remove-policies) or [Remove team policies](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#remove-team-policies) API endpoints, show this error with the fleet_created policy ID (first if there are multiple). None of the policies listed in the request are deleted:

```
Can't delete policies. Policy with ID 3 is a Fleet-maintained policy. Fleet-maintained policies can't be deleted.
```

If the user tries to edit the policy via the [Edit policy (global)](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#edit-policy) or [Edit team policy](https://fleetdm.com/docs/rest-api/rest-api#edit-team-policy) API endpoints, show this error:

```
Can't edit Fleet-maintained policies.
```

        "name": "FirefoxInsall.pkg",
        "version": "125.6",
        "self_service": true,

>         "policies": [

Author: ### Dev note

Rename `automatic_install_policies` to `policies`. We won't support old name for backwards compatibility. This endpoint is tagged as experimental: https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/product-groups#experimental-features

| self_service | boolean | form | Self-service software is optional and can be installed by the end user. |
| labels_include_any        | array     | form | Target hosts that have any label in the array. |
| labels_exclude_any | array | form | Target hosts that don't have any label in the array. |

> | ensure | string | form | Currently, the only valid option is `"present"`. Trigger a software install on all hosts missing the software. |

Author: ### Dev note

Rename `automatic_install` to `ensure` in the `POST /software/package`, `POST /software/app_store_apps` and `POST /software/fleet_maintained_apps` API endpoints.

We want to support `automatic_install` name for backwards compatibility.

Reviewer: What's the matrix of "this field should be supported on this endpoint", including automatic_install? Since we're taking auto install away on package creation in the UI, does that mean that only the old field is supported there? Or can we just drop the field entirely on software add on the name of "this is an experimental endpoint"?

Author: > What's the matrix of "this field should be supported on this endpoint", including automatic_install?

@iansltx `automatic_install` and `ensure` (new name) is supported on all endpoints that support `automatic_install` today.

`minimum_version` is only on the "Modify package" API endpoint for now.

> Can we just drop the field entirely on software add on the name of "this is an experimental endpoint"?

If it's not too much to maintain, I think let's keep the old field in case our customers are already using it. Even though it's experimental.

We decided to make no changes to the "Add software" page: The IT admin can still set **Targets** and **Options**.

| self_service | boolean | form | Whether this is optional self-service software that can be installed by the end user. |
| labels_include_any        | array     | form | Target hosts that have any label in the array. Only one of either `labels_include_any` or `labels_exclude_any` can be specified. |
| labels_exclude_any | array | form | Target hosts that don't have any label in the array. |

> | automatic_install | boolean | form | Trigger a software install only on hosts missing the software. |
> | automatic_update | boolean | form | Trigger a software install on all hosts running an older version. |

Author: ```suggestion
| ensure | string | form | Currently, the only valid option is `"present"`. Trigger a software install on all hosts missing the software. |
| minimum_version | string | form | Currently, the only valid option is `"current"`. Trigger a software install on all hosts running an older version. |
```

> | automatic_update | boolean | form | Create a policy that triggers a software install on all hosts running an older version. |

Author: ### Dev note

Add a new `automatic_update` boolean.

If the user specifies this and the package is not associated with a Fleet-maintained app, show this error:

```
Couldn't edit. Currently, `automatic_update` is only supported for Fleet-maintained apps.
```

> | automatic_install | boolean | form | Create a policy that triggers a software install only on hosts missing the software. |
> | automatic_update | boolean | form | Create a policy that triggers a software install on all hosts running an older version. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| automatic_install | boolean | form | Trigger a software install only on hosts missing the software. |
| automatic_update | boolean | form | Trigger a software install on all hosts running an older version. |
```

Thinking "create a policy" language doesn't apply here because we'll either create, modify, or delete the associaetd policy as needed based on bool value and when the package updates.

As a heads-up, we'll likely have to revise naming conventions on this sooner rather than later to differentiate vs. "automatically update _the version of the FMA in the library"

> | minimum_version | string | form | Currently, the only valid option is `"current"`. Trigger a software install on all hosts running an older version. |

Author: ### Dev note

Add a new `minimum_version` string.

If the user specifies this and the package is not associated with a Fleet-maintained app, show this error:

```
Couldn't edit. Currently, `minimum_version` is only supported for Fleet-maintained apps.
```

If the user specifies a value other than `"current"`, show this error:

```
Couldn't edit. Currently, the only valid `minimum_version` is "current".
```

Only one of `labels_include_any` or `labels_exclude_any` can be specified. If neither are specified, all hosts are targeted.

> Changes to `software` (the package) will reset `installed`, `pending`, and `failed` counts. Changes to any field other than `self_service` will cancel pending installs and uninstalls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes to any field other than `self_service` will cancel pending installs and uninstalls. Changes to `software` (the package) will reset `installed` and `failed` counts.
```

Suggesting because we're cancelling pending installs, not just resetting the count.
